All right, so I think that
sort of sums up this top area,
which is like a pretty nice kind of
high level view, what's going on?
Are we having any issues?
And we'll see in the exercise that
the dev tools are really good when there
are issues like when you're having page
jank they just start highlighting stuff
with red both up here and in the main
section, which is really nice because you
can just kind of open it up and
see if there's problems.
So now moving into this section,
this one used to be less complicated, but
I think it's way better now.
It used to just be a single column for
all the different stuff going on, but
now you can see that all of these little
columns are titled by different things
that are happening.
And so you can see like the network
requests as like I request my fonts and
things like that.
And it has a lot of the data that we saw
on the previous one like you can see
the time it took and
the priority it had which is really nice.
That was the exact same stuff we
saw on the Network tab earlier.
You can also see all the frames and
we'll take a look specifically that when
we start doing some real GPU heavy stuff.
The timings one we had already seen,
right?
That if you do any
performance marking measure,
the stuff will show up here
which can be really nice.
Actually don't know what
the experience one does [LAUGH].
I've never used that one before.
I think it's part of this.
Yeah, I'm not sure.
And then we can see the main thread here,
right?
So again,
JavaScript being single threaded,
this is where all the work will kick off.
So if we had like a big for loop or if we
have, calculating something or you have
react, parsing the JSX tree and generating
stuff, see all that going on in here.
We can check out all the rasterizing
that happens on the site as it loads.
We can see if any work that the GPU
is doing, what work it's doing.
And then we've got a couple of other
things here that I honestly I'm not
sure exactly what they do, but this
like child IO thread and the compositor.
So for the most part we're just going
to be we use timings when we do our own
performance market measure.
The network,
one is really helpful to associate.
A big request came in and
then I started getting page jank, but
it's not as helpful when you wanna
see what's what's really going on.
But for the most part, we're going
to just stick in this main thread.
This is where we're going to be able to
see a lot of stuff as it's happening.
So let me close this for a second.
So as we kind of get into things, I think
it's, it's important to look at specific
examples, which we'll do and
we'll kind of figure some stuff out but
it's also important to know
understand some high level concepts.
And the high level concepts are both
things that you can do to avoid
page jank and performance problems.
But they're also they explain a lot about
what frameworks do and like why these
frameworks exist and how they work
under the hood and things like that.
And so the first thing that you can do
is there's an API on the window object
called requestAnimationFrame.
This is really great.
And the basic idea is that
instead of doing a thing,
like changing the size of something right?
By doing like dev.style.width equals
500 pixels, you can take that and
you can pass it in as a callback to
request animation frame, that same thing.
And what that says is I do
want you to do this, but
you don't need to interrupt everything and
do it.
Before you do the next window, repaint,
please do a request animation,
please do this piece of task.
So like an idea of how things can go
really awry is this code up here.
So this looks like pretty
normal where you're like,
you grab a thing from the DOM,
you grab its height, and
then you change its height and
then you grab another things height and
you change its height, and you just
kind of like doing your work, right.
You're just like grabbing three things and
changing their heights or whatever, but
the order that they happen in
really matters because when
you do read that it can cache that.
So now anytime you refer to h1,
it's got that value cached, right?
So it doesn't need to
hit the window again.
But then you do a right it invalidates the
layout right now we have no idea how tall
this thing actually is rendered to be.
And so when we if we write vanilla
code that interacts with the DOM,
we can get into this bad habit of like
doing reads and writes back and forth.
And we're never able to cache those values
like we're always just wiping out the or
invalidating the cache.
And then rereading and
rereading and rereading.
So one approach that you could do is you
could like pump all of these reads and
writes into a request animation frame.
So the kind of way I like to look through
it is like let's say you have a site by
yourself and you're aware of this.
So you write this code,
you're like, This, this won't do.
I kind of wanna do all
my reads together and
then all my rights that's like
a that'll make things a little better.
So you do that.
But then you add a bunch of
other people onto your team.
Now it's gonna get really annoying.
It's like no, you can't just read the DOM,
you got to go over here.
And this is where we do our DOM reading.
This is where we do our DOM writing,
it gets really obnoxious.
So what you could do is you
could put all of those reads and
writes into a request animation frame so
that way, you're only
invalidating the layout right before it
gets repainted anyway for another frame.
But the important takeaway here is maybe
not to use requestAnimationFrame all
the time.
But the important thing is,
this is one of the really cool benefits
that using a front end framework will do
is all of these frameworks
will do this stuff for you.
So if you're like in react and you say,
Set the height on something or rerender,
a new component,
it won't interrupt to do it.
It'll wait until the next
animation frame fire, so
I think the bigger takeaway here than
using this API all the time is that this
is one of the really cool
benefits from using some
open source front end framework is
they'll do stuff like this for you.
Another thing you can do web workers, so
if we load a page and we see in kind of,
this like center area here, if we see a
bunch of big yellow JavaScript stuff like
I had an example here of like, calculating
Fibonacci or something like that,
where it's like, it's really busy,
the process is really busy.
You can offload that stuff to a web
worker, which essentially gives
JavaScript the main thread back
to handle the actual website.
There's a lot of cool
talks on web workers and
stuff like that I have
a very basic example.
So you can like grab two things like you
can grab an input form and a feet on a div
to display some stuff in If you can check
if the window dot worker API exists,
like if this browser supports it, and
if it does, you can instantiate a new one.
And then you can basically send messages
with a post message command and
you can receive messages
with an on message command.
So for example, like a contrived example,
if you have a bunch of cool animations on
your screen, but you have to calculate
a really big number If you don't use a web
worker when the calculation's happening,
those animations are going to just stop,
right?
They're gonna freeze there because
the main thread's being used to
calculate the number.
And as we mentioned a little bit ago, you
could also get around this by moving all
those animations into CSS,
which would free you up there.
But in lieu of that,
you could take the big calculation,
you could toss it to a web worker
that'll split off another thread,
do your calculation and then answer back.
Meanwhile, the animations go smoothly.
Web Workers are a whole separate topic.
They have restrictions like
they can't mess with the DOM.
But they're really great for kicking off
any kind of big tasks like If you do
any kind of Frontend processing for
your ads or something like that,
which ones got clicked on, which ones got
seen and you have all this math to do.
That's a great example of when to use
a web worker to free up the main thread.
The next one use a framework.
I meant to put an asterisk here,
this is a warning.
I'm not a gigantic framework proponent.
I'm not like you should always
use some framework for your apps.
Not at all.
But I do think if you're getting into
a problem where you're trying to do
something like anything with animation
heavy working on a game working on
a really flashy website, and
you start seeing these page jank problems,
then using some kind of framework and
doesn't have to be a react style.
It could be like a D3 style or
something like that.
One of the big benefits is they will batch
up this work for you and do those things.
And then the last thing is just like
again, kind of back to the Network tab,
the idea of reducing complexity.
So this is like, you can be amazed at
all the things like even like a long,
CSS selectors like, DIV UL Li span ,or
something like that take more processing
power than shorter UI like, selectors
like a class name or something like that.
Just like kinda a million
things that ,you could do.
But I think the big ways to do
it are,using web workers for
expensive stuff and
using requestAnimationFrame for
batching up all of your writes and,
reads and things like that.
I know those are a little weird
because they're covered but
not covered in depth like this isn't
going to be on web workers or RIF.